# Root Ad Auction Group Project

## Cőde Boot Camp Project
This project was part of an annual one month long coding [boot camp](https://www.erdosinstitute.org/code) that was organized by the [Erdős Institute](https://www.erdosinstitute.org).  The goal of the boot camp was to provide PhD students with foundational knowdlegde to analyze data, build and use models and simulations, and interpret their findings.  It culiminated with a group project in the final week that was presented to physics and math professors as well as industry sponsors of the event.  Our team consisted of 5 PhD students in the physics department.

## Project Description
The project that we chose to tackle was a suggested project by one of the industry sponsors of the boot camp, Root Insurance. The dataset that they provided consisted of one month of ad auction data from a real-time bidding (RTB) agent.  The idea behind an ad auction is that an auction will be held to determine which ad will be shown in an app to a particular user. So, an app will send a request for an ad to an ad exhange and then an auction will be held.  RTB agents will then submit a bid amount for the inventory, and the agent with the highest bid wins the auction and gets to serve their ad to the end user.  When this data was collected, this was a second price auction, so the winner of the auction doesn't pay the amount they bid, instead they pay the amount of the second highest bidder.  These RTB agents are just models that use features describing the inventory for which an ad has been requested and output a bid amount for the inventory based upon the likelihood that the end user will click on their ad.

The main goal for this project was to train a classifier which indentifies impressions that are going to lead to clicks on the ad.  A significant challenge for this project is the fact that this dataset is highly imbalanced (i.e. most people don't click on the ad), as well as categorical in nature.  Additionally, our group was limited to only using personal machines for this work, so the large size of the dataset meant that we had to work 
